The .txt files that are referred to in the following can be found in the Dryad Digital Repository.

1)	The dataset corresponding to figure 6B has been obtained by numerical simulations performed with Comsol. The associated datapoints can be found in the text files named “initial_concentration.txt” (t=0, both in the presence and absence of flow), “t=1s_no_flow_D=10^-11.txt” (t<<tau_diff, absence of flow), “t=1s_v=6mum_per_s.txt” (t<<tau_diff, presence of flow), “t=1000s_no_flow_D=10^-11_70d.txt” (t>>tau_diff, absence of flow) and “t=1000s_v=6mum_per_s.txt” (t>>tau_diff, presence of flow). The values in the text files represent the local concentration, at coordinates that are linearly distributed from y=0 (bottom ventral wall) to y=d (top dorsal wall) concerning the raws of the matrices. Concerning the column of the matrices, they represent coordinates in the axis of the canal (x direction) linearly distributed either from x=-2*d to x=+2*d (for t=0 and t << tau_diff) or from x=-70*d to x=+70*d (for t>>tau_diff). The colormaps can be produced by running with Matlab the file “Color_Map.m”.

2)	The curve corresponding to the panel C1 of figure 6 have also been obtained from Comsol simulations. The associated datapoints can be found in the text files named concentration_vs_time_D=10-11_no_flow.txt“ (no flow), “concentration_vs_time_D=10-11_moderate_flow_6mum_per_s.txt” (moderate bidirectional flow) and “concentration_vs_time_D=10-11_strong_flow_20mum_per_s.txt” (strong bidirectional flow). To plot the curve, the Matlab script called “Fig6C1_plot.m” needs to be runned. It tracks the position of the front at which the concentration equals 10^(-11), an arbitrary value to quantify the propagation of the concentration front. The straight lines are the asymptotic prediction (propagation of the front as the square root of the time), using the Taylor-Aris derivation coupling transport and diffusion equation provided in the main manuscript.
 

