The .txt files that are referred to in the following can be found in the Dryad Digital Repository. The "TracesWT.mat" file can be found here, and corresponds to the in vivo measurements of the velocity profile in the CC.

1)	The panel A3 of the figure 3 represents a colormap of the axial velocity distribution in the central canal, taking an axially invariant force f_v in the ventral half of the canal. The velocity values are located in a text file named “homogeneous_force_distribution_velocity_magnitude.txt”, composed of 1000 raws and 2500 columns. The raws represent the coordinate in the y-direction (radial), linearly distributed from the ventral wall (y=0) to the dorsal wall (y=t=10^-5 m). The columns represent the coordinate in the axial direction (x), linearly distributed from x=1.75*10^-5 m to 4.25*10^-5 m (i.e. a length of 2.5*10^-5m, or 2.5 canal diameter). To produce the colormap of the panel A3, the first part of the Matlab script called “VelocityDistrib_and_Streamlines.m” has to be runned. 

2)	The panel B comparing the 57 in vivo measured velocity profiles with the numerical and theoretical predictions can be produced by running the scripted named “Superposition_numerics_theory_experiments.m”. The numerical data are located in the text file called “Velocity_profile_Comsol.txt” and the structure containing the 57 velocity profiles is in the Matlab file “TracesWT.mat”. Its variable name is “AllProfiles” and contains 57 cells. The theoretical profile is calculated using the formulas detailed in the main manuscript (with a central canal of diameter d=10 microns, a ciliary ventral region of thickness l=5 microns and a homogeneous force f_v to model the effect of the cilia in the ventral region of expression f_v = 0.5*f*mu/l, where mu = 10^-3 Pa.s is the CSF viscosity assumed to be equal to the viscosity of water, and f = 40 Hz is an average estimate of the beating frequency of the cilia.

3)	To obtain the colormaps+streamlines of the panels C2, the same Matlab script (“VelocityDistrib_and_Streamlines.m”) as for the colormap of the panel A3 has to be runned. To the colormaps representing the axial velocity distribution (loaded from textfiles named “w=2d_velocity_magnitude.txt”, “w=d_velocity_magnitude.txt” and “w=d_over_2_velocity_magnitude.txt” corresponding respectively to the large, medium and short empty regions in the scarce cilia model described in panel C1), the streamlines are superimposed. These streamlines are loaded from text files where their coordinates are written : “w=2d_streamlines.txt”, “w=d_streamlines.txt” and “w=d_over_2_streamlines.txt”.
